h1. ElasticSearch PartialUpdate Plugin

NOTE elasticsearch 0.19 already implemented a update action,check it out:
http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/api/update.html


//version:1.0.0 is for es0.16.2,
//version 1.1.1 is for es0.19.4
//version 1.2.0 is for es0.90.2
//version 1.2.2 is for es1.0.0

//changelog:
//2012-07-08 change all rest interface "_update" to "_partial_update".(breaking change!)
//2014.2.26  array merge support


h2. Update your index on-demand.

h3. how to build this plugin?

** specify elasticsearch version

by edit pom.xml,you can specify the elasticsearch version you are using.

<pre>
...
<elasticsearch.version>1.0.0</elasticsearch.version>
...
</pre>

** maven build

<pre>
mvn clean
mvn package
</pre>

** install the plugin

*** compiled jar files can be found from the RTF project:
https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-rtf/tree/master/elasticsearch/plugins/partial_update

*** drop the jar file to your elasticsearch plugin folder:
elasticsearch/plugin/es-partial-update/


** versions

|partial update Plugin|ElasticSearch|
| master|1.0.0 -> master|
| 1.2.2|1.0.0|
| 1.2.1|0.90.2|
| 1.1.1|0.19.4|
| 1.1.0|0.19.0|
| 1.0.0|0.18.x|

h3. how to play with this plugin?

** first,let's index a document

<pre>
curl -XDELETE http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/ -d'{"name":"medcl","blog":"http://log.medcl.net"}'

{"ok":true,"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":1}
</pre>

** now let's get it

<pre>
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/

{"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":1, "_source" : {"name":"medcl","blog":"http://log.medcl.net"}}
</pre>

** ok,let's update it,update a filed(name),and add a new filed(time)

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/_partial_update -d'{"name":"medcl?","time":"2011-1-1"}'

{"ok":true,"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":2}
</pre>

** let's get the document again,and you can see,the document is already changed.

<pre>
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/

{"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":2, "_source" : {"time":"2011-1-1","name":"medcl?","blog":"http://log.medcl.net"}}
</pre>



h3. how to play with array merge
.
** add a new tag,data type is array

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/_partial_update -d'{"tag":["test"]}'
</pre>

** now check it

<pre>
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/

{"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":39,"exists":true, "_source" : {"blog":"http://log.medcl.net","name":"medcl?","tag":["test"],"time":"2011-1-1"}}
</pre>

** update the tag field,add new tag `movie`

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/_partial_update/append -d'{"tag":["movie"]}'
</pre>

** now check it again

<pre>
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/

{"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":40,"exists":true, "_source" : {"blog":"http://log.medcl.net","name":"medcl?","tag":["test","movie"],"time":"2011-1-1"}}
</pre>

as you can see,movie is in.

** let's remove `test` from tag

<pre>
curl -XPOST http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/_partial_update/remove -d'{"tag":["test"]}'
</pre>

** check it again.

<pre>
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/index/type1/1/

{"_index":"index","_type":"type1","_id":"1","_version":41,"exists":true, "_source" : {"blog":"http://log.medcl.net","name":"medcl?","tag":["movie"],"time":"2011-1-1"}}</pre>

have fun.